# Instant messaging conversation with a 24 year-old French father

* The conversation occurred between the father and Cyrille Rossant, now-president of the [Adikia association](https://adikia.fr/), on 22 September 2017.
* The father was accused in 2016 of shaking his 4.5 month old daughter. He was sentenced to 5 years of probation in 2022. 
* The conversation was slightly edited, shortened for clarity purposes, and translated from French to English.

**Father**

My partner and I were called to the police station on Monday at 9 am.

From 9 am to 12 pm, I was maintaining my innocence, because I've never
done anything.

The more I was denying it, the more the detectives accused my partner. I
was really stressed and panicked because it was the first time in my
life I was put in custody.

At about 12-12.30 pm, they put me in a cell (as soon as I was leaving
the interrogation room, they were putting me in handcuffs). I was even
more scared...

At about 2-2.30 pm, they came for me and, when I left my cell, I saw the
boots of my partner in front of the cell next door.

This is when I broke down, I imagined my partner in jail, with
everything we can imagine. It broke my heart. So I decided to "confess"
something I didn't do to protect her because, to me, it's the man who
needs to protect his wife and child, no matter what, no matter the
price.

So I asked to be heard again, to explain what I did. I said I shook my
daughter.

I went past the investigation judge, and the judge of freedoms, who
decided to put me on parole.

Every week, I need to sign at the police station. I cannot see my
daughter anymore.

I need to see a therapist who will determine my personality.

I cannot leave the county.

**Cyrille Rossant (CR)**

OK. Were you interrogated together or separately, at first?

**Father**

Separately from the beginning. They were trying to make us accuse each
other.

**CR**

When you "confessed", what did you say exactly? Any details?

**Father**

I said I hadn't done anything wrong, that I would never hurt my
daughter. They told me she woke up at night to shake her, before leaving
for work.

**CR**

Did you want to make the detectives believe your confession was genuine?

**Father**

Yes, I actually believe I've never lied that well.

When I confessed to shaking my daughter, it hurt me so much to just
imagine myself doing it that I cried... So my story was even more
convincing. It's terrible.

**CR**

Did you give any details on the circumstances, the time, the number of
shakes, the duration, etc?

**Father**

Yes. They asked me about it.

I said I shook her for one or two seconds, while telling her she needed
to take her bottle.

This is where we notice some inconsistencies in my "confessions". I
seriously doubt that 1-2 seconds would be sufficient to harm her that
much, and one cannot possibly hurt a baby just because the baby doesn't
want to take the bottle. When my daughter didn't want to eat, I waited
no more than 15 minutes, after which she asked for the bottle.

**CR**

Did they ask you to "reproduce" the gesture? Or to be specific about the
force?

**Father**

Yes.

**CR**

With a doll?

**Father**

No, just with my bare hands.

They also asked me how I was holding her.

I said: by the waist.

And I said her head went back and forth twice or thrice.

**CR**

And this information about twice or thrice, did you make it up?

**Father**

Yes, like everything else.

**CR**

Had they given you some suggested details about the gesture beforehand,
for example, telling you "you shook her and her head went back and
forth"?

**Father**

Yes. One of the two detectives couldn't stop telling me it could happen
to some parents to shake their child while telling them "you need to eat
now!"

I just had to repeat what they had told me, by "improving" the story a
bit and giving a bit more details.

**CR**

OK, so it's really a suggestion where you were told again and again the
circumstances, and then they let you make a false confession.

**Father**

Exactly...

(...)

It feels good to talk about it.

We've been manipulated.

The detectives had been looking for who did it for a year and a half of
investigation.

(...)

I had a public defender who made things even worse.

(...)

My partner is the love of my life. If I need to spend 20 years in prison
to help her get our daughter back and have a quiet life, then I'll never
regret it.

*(we discuss the fact that her partner has believed, for a short time,
his confession)*

I absolutely understand she had a moment of weakness, the lawyers and
doctors are very good for this.

**CR**

These are highly sophisticated psychological manipulation tricks...

**Father**

Yes, indeed... I thought I was strong psychologically speaking, but they
managed to turn my mind upside down and they made me break so fast...

I don't know what to do to pull through it apart going on with my life
and try.

**CR**

Thank you. (...) Have you read and signed the minutes of the
interrogation?

**Father**

Absolutely, I've read it all, I even corrected misspellings of the
detective.

And for sure, I signed.

**CR**

OK, so the minute corresponds exactly to what happened? If we read it
carefully from start to finish, can we see if it's a false confession
or not?

**Father**

I don't know anything about all of this, I was so upset. I said yes to
everything.

I think one can believe it, although there are some inconsistencies.

But I don't know, maybe it's consistent enough to them.

(...)

**Father**

I cannot recant my confession. The lawyer who follows us since the
beginning said that, since I reiterated my confession in front of the
investigatory judge, I couldn't recant it.

(...)

Besides, I was so scared to go to prison that very day that I told the
judge of freedoms that I would not recant my confession and that I would
assume the consequences.

My public defender told me that if I started to change the story or
whatever, the judge would have no mercy.

She didn't tell me it like that, but that was the meaning.
